# CCtoCV: NPC: Ronaldo 'Ronnie' Martinez

Ronnie is the first person seen by the aliens and the first being that the aliens tried to co-opt. Through a combination of damage to the contacting alien due to disruption of its materialization by a passing moth, and the aliens misapprehension of the nature and complexity of human, a one way information leak has been established.

Ronnie has access to the mind of the alien that touched and tried to control him. His problems start there. An alien is exactly that, alien... and barely to be understood. So, since the first night, Ronnie has been struggling with what seems to be a sudden madness.

The only thing that has kept him from a complete decent into disorganization is the fact that he lives in a mobile home and the aluminum sides shield him from the connection to the alien. 

He has been able to hold himself together by staying in his home, but is compelled to try and understand what is happening to him and spends days (and nights) wandering the town.

He has been called in for all the paid and unpaid time from his job at JP's that he could arrange. But he won't be able to hold his job much longer. His situation is desperate and time is running out.

Through impressions received, he knows the aliens have become aware of the players. During their first day of adventuring they were seen by one of the golem constructs the aliens are using for initial research. Since that encounter, the aliens have kept tabs on the players.

When the players first encountered Ronnie, he still had hope that the players might escape notice. But this not destined to be. In fact, contact between Ronnie and the players is critical to both.

The players may be able to make the connection between aluminum and protection from alien mind control and allow him to reclaim his life.

This ability to use aluminum to protect themselves will be important in future encounters too.

But most importantly, without Ronnie's insight into the alien's and their plans, the players would have no clue about how to proceed or what they faced.

Topics: DnD, Chaos in Castro Valley, Character, NPC
